>> Kyle Simpson: Now let's
talk about equality,
the third topic underneath types and
coercion.
Let's talk about equality.
You've probably heard about the double
equals versus the triple equals.
And you've probably heard, as most
people say, that we should just avoid
the double equals all together and
only use the triple equals.
And the way that's usually
explained is this,
that the double equals will
check the value loosely.
And that the triple equals will
check the value and the type, and
that's called strict equality.
It turns out that even though this is what
most people say, it's not actually true.
It turns out that the difference
between them is whether or
not coercion is allowed.
The double equals allows coercion
when the types are different, and
triple equals disallows coercion.
And really that means that you
can only use triple equals
when the types are the same.
So, it's interesting that people
say never use the double equals.
They're basically saying,
I don't want to let JavaScript
convert from one type to another.
I wanna always make sure
that my types are the same.
Really triple equals comes down to saying,
I wanna do these checks but
if I messed up and one of these things
is not the type that I thought it was.
I want Java script to basically fail for
me.
And I don't think that's
the best way to go about this.
We don't want to not
know what our types are.
We wanna know what the types are.
And if we know what the types are,
then we can choose specifically
whether we want coercion.
Whether it's helpful or not.
So let me give you a couple examples.
If I have studentName1 is Frank,
and then I make studentName2.
That's another string that
has studentName1 in it.
So I just went from a string to a string,
no coercion happened there.
Now, line four and five if I make
workshop elements is 16, and
I make workshop element two is 16 plus 0.
Both of those are numbers.
So if I do studentName1 equal,
equal studentName2, that is a string
double equal to the string.
And we know those strings are already
equal cuz of how I assigned them.
And if we did a triple equals,
it's also gonna be true.
And then if you look at line ten and
11, whether we use the double equals or
the triple equals,
they both result in true.
The point that I'm making is, that when
the types are already the same, the double
equals and the triple equals do exactly
the same thing in 100% of all cases.
No corner cases whatsoever.
When the types are already the same,
they do the same thing.
And my advice to you as you go about this
journey of learning about JavaScript more.
Is that you bring with you any habits that
you may have from another programming
language, if any that you actually
do make your types more obvious.
And if you're gonna do that,
if you're gonna take the time and
the effort to make sure that every
comparison that you do that it's
obvious that they're both strings.
Or that it's obvious,
that they're both numbers.
In those particular cases, double
equals and triple equals are identical.
There's no reason to avoid the double
equals just because somebody said, hey,
you should never use the double equals.
It's only when they're different,
it's only when the types are different
that they have a different behavior.
And here you'll notice that actually
the double equals can be more convenient,
at least more easily readily readable.
So I have a case where I'm comparing
workshop1.topic whether it's null or
undefined.
And workshop2.topic whether it's null or
And on lines four through
seven I'm basically saying,
can it be one or the other?
Can it be null, or can it be undefined,
and I'm using the triple equals.
But on lines 11 through 14,
I'm doing the exact same kind of check,
with the exact same outcome,
but I'm using a double equals.
And notice how much shorter that code is.
Because I know that the double
equals coercively checks null and
undefined equal to each other.
And my claim is that lines 11 through
14 are not only the same functionally
equivalent code, but that that is better
code because it is more readable.
And remember how I define better is
because the reader is focused on the more
important thing.
The less important detail is whether or
not there's this nuance in
whether it was null or undefined.
That is an unimportant detail that
distracts the reader in lines four
through seven.
The more important detail is, I'm asking,
is workshop1.topic empty, and
is workshop2.topic empty?
So I would claim that lines 11 through
14 are focusing the reader on the more
important thing.
And by my definition,
that makes the code better.
So that's one of the examples,
there are more that we won't
really fully dive into here.
But that's one of the examples
of why something like
allowing Java script to take care of type
conversions can actually improve our code.